.TH xls2csv 1  "Version 0.94.2" "MS-Word reader"
.SH NAME
xls2csv \- reads MS-Excel file and puts its content as comma-separated data on standard output
.SH SYNOPSIS

.BR "xls2csv " [ -xlV ] 
.RB [ -f 
.IR " format " ] 
.RB [ -b
.IR " string " ]
.RB [ -s 
.IR " charset " ] 
.RB [ -d 
.IR " charset " ] 
.RB [-q 
.IR " number " ] 
.RB [ -c 
.IR " char" ] 
.I files

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B xls2csv 
reads MS-Excel spreadsheet and dumps its content as comma-separated
values to stdout. Numbers are printed without delimiters, strings are
enclosed in the double quotes. Double-quotes inside string are doubled.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 8
.BR -x
print unknown Unicode chars as \exNNNN, rather than as question marks
.TP 8
.BR -l
list known charsets and exit successfully
.TP 8
.BI -c char
cell separator char. By default - comma.
.TP 8
.BI -b string
sheet break string. This string (by default - formfeed) would be output
at the end of each workbook page. This string is printed after page
starting at start of line, but no linefeed would be automatically added
at the end of string. Include newline at the ent of sheet separator if
you want it to appear on separate line by itself
.TP 9
.BI -g number
number of decimal digits in the numbers. By default maximal double
precision (system-dependent macro DBL_DIG) is used.
.TP 8
.BI -q number
set quote mode. In quote mode 0 cell contents is never quoted.
In quote mode 1 only strings which contain spaces, double quotes or
commas are quoted.
In quote mode 2 (default) all cells with type string are quoted.
In quote mode 3 all cells are quoted.

.TP 8
.BI -d charset`
- specifies destination charset name. Charset file has format described in
CHARACTER SETS section of 
.BR catdoc (1)
manual page. By default, current locale
charset would be used if langinfo support was enabled at the compile time.

.TP 8
.BI -s charset
- specifies source charset. Typically, Excel files have CODE PAGE
record, which denotes input charset, but for some reason you may wish to 
override it.
.TP 8
.BI -f format
- specifies date/time format to use for output of all Excel date and
time  values.  If this option is not specified, format, specified in 
the spreadsheet is used. On POSIX system any format, allowed by 
.BR strftime (3)
can be used as value of this option. Under MS-DOS 
.B xls2csv
implements limited set of 
.B strftime 
formats, namely 
.BR m ", " d ", " y ", " Y ", " b ", " l ", " p ", " H ", " M ", " S .

.TP 8
.B -V
outputs version number

.SH FILES
${HOME}/.catdocrc, catdoc charset files and substitution map files (see 
.BR catdoc (1)
manual page for details,

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR cat (1),
.BR catdoc (1),
.BR strings (1),
.BR utf (4),
.BR unicode (4)

.SH AUTHOR

V.B.Wagner <vitus@45.free.net>, based on biffview by David Rysdam
